## Background Information
**Team**: Team #num

**Documentation Link:** (link-to-document)[#]

**Semester of Completion:** *CLASS|SEASONYEAR* MIS3200|Spring2026

***Check all that applies to the branch changes***

- [ ] Branch should persist after merge
- [ ] Bug fix
- [ ] New feature implementation
- [ ] New/existing documentation

## (Short) Description of Purpose
Provide a brief summary of the changes and the motivation behind them.

## Related Kanban Issues
Link issues and tickets related to the pull request here
- [ ] link to issue #1
- [ ] link to issue #2
- ...

## Checklist
***Testing***
- [ ] I have performed a self-review of my own code
  - [Testing measures are listed here](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/wiki/Installation#%EF%B8%8Fdeveloper-note-testing-the-software).
  - I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works.
  - I have reviewed [git best practices](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/code_related/guides/git/GitPractices.md) to reduce the chance of code conflicts.
- [ ] Any warnings generated by the code, and left to persist, have been reviewed to be non-effective to the function of the codebase.
- [ ] Any warnings generated by the code, and left to persist, have been documented as to their specific cause(s) and location in the codebase.

***Code documentation***
- [ ] I have gotten feedback from this code from at least one other technical lead.
- [ ] I have commented where the changes made to the original code begin and where the changes end by its developers.
- [ ] I have thoroughly commented and explained the way in which the code works to ensure future maintainability.
- [ ] Comments follow standardized styling guidelines [here](#)

***Documentation***
- [ ] Documentation is up to standard with the [document conversion guidelines](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/non_technical/documentation%20key/documentation_guide.md)
- [ ] Documentation is free of API keys, passwords, and other secrets

***Customer Discovery***
- [ ] There is no personally identifiable information, such as real names, real email addresses, or real contact information in the documentation
- [ ] If the documentation includes survey/interview questions, there are no responses to the question, only the questions themselves. For privacy, NO survey or interview responses should be added to the repository
