PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

## Using this Pull Request Template
1. In the "Description of Changes" section below, please fill out the details requested. 
2. Create the pull request. 
3. Check the boxes in the "Type of Change" section that apply to your changes. 
4. Check the boxes in the "Checklist Before Review" section that apply. 
5. Assign at least one reviewer to review your pull request by clicking the settings icon next to Reviewers. 

## Description of Changes
Please identify the particular changes that were made for this pull request: 
* Describe the changes here: 

### Identify when the completion of this work took place
Please identify the semester and of what year this work was completed (ex., BA5200|Fall2025).
* List the timeline here: 

### Identify which team you are on (ex., Team #|"team name") 
* List the team here:

### Identify any tasks, stories, or GitHub issues associated with this work
* Identify the task/story/issue here:

## Type of Change (check all that apply)
- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality not to work as expected)
- [ ] Documentation addition/update (non-breaking change that adds documentation to the system)

## Coding Checklist
- [ ] I have performed a self-review of my code. It runs without errors and follows the [Best Coding Practices](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/code_related/guides/codingpractices/BestCodingPractices.md)
- [ ] My code follows the style guidelines of this project outlined [here](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/non_technical/style%20guide/style_guide.md)
- [ ] I have followed the git practices outlined [here](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/code_related/guides/git/GitPractices.md) to ensure code conflicts are minimized.
- [ ] There are no API keys, passwords, usernames, or other secrets in the code. I am using .env files for all secrets.
- [ ] I have updated my pull request so that it is up to date with the main branch.
- [ ] Check this box if you would like your branch NOT to be deleted

## Testing Checklist
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works.
- [ ] I have followed the development note for testing software [here](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/wiki/Installation#%EF%B8%8Fdeveloper-note-testing-the-software)
- [ ] I have updated my pull request so that it is up to date with the main branch 
- [ ] Check this box if you would like your branch NOT to be deleted

## Documentation Checklist 
- [ ] There is no personally identifiable information, such as real names, real email addresses, or real contact information
- [ ] There are no responses to interview questions, only interview questions by themselves
- [ ] I have checked the [document conversion guide](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/non_technical/documentation%20key/documentation_guide.md) and double-checked that my file will be visible on GitHub’s platform
- [ ] I have updated my pull request so that it is up to date with the main branch 
- [ ] Check this box if you would like your branch NOT to be deleted

Commit message:

Revise PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE for clarity and conciseness
Updated pull request template to streamline sections and improve clarity.

PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

## Description of Changes
Please identify the particular changes that were made for this pull request.


### Identify when the completion of this work took place
If your work was completed for a class project, please identify class and semester it was completed (ex., BA5200|Fall2025).


### Identify which team you are on (ex., Team #|"team name")
If your work was completed for a class project, please indicate which team you completed the contribution for.


### Identify GitHub issue associated with this work
Provide a link to the GitHub Issue here: 

- [ ] The GitHub Issue is ready to be closed after this pull request is approved and merged. Do not check this box if more work is left on the Issue.

## Type of Change (check all that apply)
- [ ] Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
- [ ] New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
- [ ] Documentation addition/update (non-breaking change that adds documentation to the system)

## Branch Management
- [ ] I have updated my pull request so that it is up to date with the main branch.
- [ ] Check this box if you would like to keep this branch for future use after the pull request is approved and merged. Leave unchecked if you want the branch deleted.

## Coding Checklist
- [ ] I have performed a self-review of my code. It runs without errors and follows the [Best Coding Practices](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/code_related/guides/codingpractices/BestCodingPractices.md)
- [ ] My code follows the style guidelines outlined [here](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/non_technical/style%20guide/style_guide.md)
- [ ] I have followed the git practices outlined [here](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/code_related/guides/git/GitPractices.md) to ensure code conflicts are minimized.
- [ ] There are no API keys, passwords, usernames, or other secrets in the code. I am using .env files for all secrets.
- [ ] I provided documentation within my code for difficult logic and provided technical documentation in the documentation section to ensure my feature is easily maintainable.

## Testing Checklist
- [ ] I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works.
- [ ] I have followed the development note for testing software [here](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/wiki/Installation#%EF%B8%8Fdeveloper-note-testing-the-software)

## Documentation Checklist 
- [ ] There are no API keys, passwords or other secrets in the documentation
- [ ] There is no personally identifiable information, such as real names, real email addresses, or real contact information in the documentation
- [ ] If the documentation includes survey/interview questions, there are no responses to the question, only the questions themselves. For privacy, NO survey or interview responses should be added to the repository
- [ ] I have checked the [document conversion guide](https://github.com/jeffreywallphd/OpenFinAL/blob/main/documentation/non_technical/documentation%20key/documentation_guide.md) and double-checked that my file will be visible on GitHub’s platform
